# Scrumdapp passport DevTools 

This repository provides a selection of tools to simulate the passports usually generated by the [Scrumdapp api gateway](https://github.com/Scrumdapp/gateway-api) for local testing & development. 
This tool is **NOT** meant to be used in production in any shape or form and is not secure for this purpose. 

## How to install

### From IDE using Gradle
You can run the application through your ide by using any Gradle JVM that supports the java 21 toolchain. 

### Docker 
You can build and run the application through the provided Dockerfile. 

```docker build -t passport-tools .```

```docker run -d -p 9999:9999 passport-tools```

## How to use

You can generate passports by going to ```/passport``` which will generate a passport. You can customize the passport one or more of the following query paramaters: 

- ```userId```: Int, sets an user id
- ```userGroups```: takes a list of integers which overrides userGroup claim
- ```roles```: takes a list of roles. It is recommended to only use STUDENT and/or COACH
- ```lifetime```: sets the lifetime of the passport in seconds 

Additionally you can extract the public portion of the RSA key used to encrypt the JWT by going to ```/public-rsa```. The key is provided in standard RSA format. 
Keep in mind that the RSA keypair gets re-generated on each start-up. 

## How services use this devtool

Services that implemented the [passport package](https://github.com/Scrumdapp/passport-package) require a JWK (Json Web Key) to be provided by an identity or auth provider. 
The passport tool provides a JWK key compliant with [RFC 7517](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7517) at ```/.well-known/jwks.json``` for this purpose. 
